We saw how to use that logging service in the last lecture.
Now let me show you another typical use case for a service to store and manage our data.
So for example our accounts but now I store them here in the app component and then we have this chain
of property and event binding to get data to the event add to the app component so that we dare can
update our accounts.
Let's create a service for that.
The account service maybe.
So I would create this and I will export my accounts service class here just like that.
And here I will now copy in my accounts so I will remove them from my app component and paste them into
my accounts service and I will add an account method here where I simply expect to get the account name
and status and I will add update status method where I expect to get the idea of the account I want
you update and then the new status here.
Now the logic for these two methods is basically the same as in the EPK of a component for a new account.
In the ad account.
I simply want to push a new account onto my array of accounts and hearable simply quickly create a new
object where I assign the name and the status.
So the data we get passed into this method and for the status change.
Well here I basically want to also just access my account with that ID here and set the status to well
the new status we get passed as an argument too.
So if that is service looks all right we got our server our accounts there and we got our methods to
change something there.
Of course the app is broken though because for one I don't need that code and yep component anymore.
If we have a look at the app component template we still loop through all the accounts here.
So I should still have my accounts here in the app component but we remove them from here.
They're now into service.
So we should maybe read at them here but now this should simply be an array of accountants.
So each account object has a name which is a string and a status which is a string.
I'm just defining the type here.
And we want to have an array of such objects initially.
It should be an empty array.
This is what I'm saying here.
Now since we have a rockhound service we should inject it here as we learned it.
So let's add our accounts service year of type accounts service the type of subreport to inform angler
about what we need here.
Let's close.
Does body of the constructor.
And make sure to add to import at the top pointing to your account service file.
Now what did we learn.
We also need to add a provider.
So here at the provider's array we should add accounts service so that anger knows how to create such
an account service.
With that we can now add for example on it it does on in a lifecycle hook as most initialization should
not be done in the constructor but instead here and simply set this accounts accounts equal to this
account service which is available as a property because I used this shortcut with the accessor in front
of the argument name.
And here I can access my accounts field just as a little note since accounts here is an array.
It is a reference type.
This is normal javascript behavior.
So this is a reference type.
So by setting it equal here we're actually getting access to the exact same array as stored in the service.
Just as a side note.
So with that we do have access to the accounts and if we save this and have a look at our application
distils seems to work these buttons will not work and will actually give us arrows because I removed
the event listeners.
But in general this looks all right.
We can see the free accounts which are now stored in our accounts service.
So with that let's go back to our application and here I now want to update the account component anti-New
account component.
Let's start with the new account here.
We no longer need to emit this event here because we're not listening to it anyways so we can get rid
of the output here.
Get rid of the imports appear of event emitter and output.
Instead we should inject our service our accounts service of type accounts service.
And what did we learn.
We ship provided right.
So let's add a count service account service and make sure to add the import at the top.
Now with this in here I can call accounts service an account and pass the account name A.E. account
status.
As this is what this method expects to get as arguments.
So with that let's go to our account component.
Now let's also get rid of the output here.
We still need to inputs because we're still receiving that data from outside and we can get rid of this
event calling here we removed the output anyways get rid of the imports we don't need anymore.
And now here I also want to get access to the accounts service.
So let's inject that here to maybe a new line to make it more readable.
The accounts service of type accounts service like this make sure to import at the top and let's add
it to the providers aere here with data I can now call it Year account service call update status pass
my ID and the new status.
Again this is what this method expects.
If we now save as and go back to our application it looks all right but we quickly realized that if
we click on an account we don't get an error or we get the.
But I don't see the count.
If I click these buttons I also see the lock but I don't see the change here.
So something is not working correctly.
It seems like it doesn't.
Right.
Well let's have a look at what's going wrong here in the next lecture.